Hello and welcome to this Python tutorial in Statoil we are going to make the first step into implementing
the deep theory model.
So basically we are about to implement the whole process of the diffusion algorithm.
And so we going to use what we created before.
That is the architecture of the neural network to replay memory to integrate this into the whole dequeue
learning process.
And this whole learning algorithm is going to fit into one class.
That's the last that we're making to implement artificial intelligence.
And this class will just contain different functions.
So we will have the in it functions which will create and initialize all the variables attached to our
future detouring objects which will represent the model itself and they will have some other functions.
One of them will of course be to select the right action at each time.
We will also have an update function core function to get this core and have an idea of how the learning
is going if it's going well.
If the exploration is going well and if it can move on to exploitation and then we'll have a safe function
to save tomorrow that is to save the brain of the car and then eventually load function.
So we have a couple of functions to make.
We're going to make one function for each to toil.
And today we're going to start with the end function as usual when we're making a class.
But first let's not forget to introduce the class so we're going to call it D.
Q And for you network then some parenthesis call in.
And then we go with our first function.
So let's do this def then double underscore then its double underscore again and parenthesis.
So as you understood in this function we are going to introduce the variables attached to our object.
So we are going to have a couple of lines starting all by self and we'll basically create and initialize
all the variables that are needed to implement the D2 network.
So we will for example create an object or network because of course we need our deep neural network
then we will need our memory.
We will create another variable for the memory.
So we'll have another variable self up memory but then that's not all we will have to create as well.
Some variables for the last date.
The last action and the last word.
That's of course you know the variables that you see in the diffusion algorithm.
And then what else.
Well we will also need an optimizer you know to perform stochastic grid in the sense of data weights
according to how much they will contribute to the error.
When the AI is making a mistake and then I think that so that's basically the variables we now need
to create and initialize.
But in this init function we will put a couple of arguments first as usual self which is the arguments
referring to our object.
Then since you know we're going to create an object of the network class.
Well since the network class takes as argument in the init function input size and the action Well that's
the same here.
When creating an object of the network class we will need to choose an input size argument and the actual
argument.
Therefore we can just copy them
some here and here we go.
So these arguments will now become.
Also some arguments didn't last.
Whenever we create some future objects of the different class that some future dical role models Well
we will need to specify the input size which I remind is the number of dimensions in the vectors that
are including your states.
Your input states and a number of actions which is the number of possible actions the car can make.
So I remind you.
These are either go left go straight or go right.
Okay perfect.
Then you know you will be creating a new object of the replay memory class to create the memory object
to get our memory of the transitions and in the information we have the capacity argument.
But since we will only be using it once actually when we create memory and not any whereafter Well we
won't need to specify the capacity argument.
We could do this but will directly input the number of transitions we want our memory to have.
But then we need one last argument which is to get the parameter in the teacher model.
Remember this gamma parameter is the delay.
And that's a parameter of the equation and therefore we will put it here because we will be using it
afterwards several times.
So let's put it here.
We're going to call it Gamma.
So for that it's just the name of the argument and then we go that all the arguments you will need for
this in its function.
So that means that whenever we create our dictionary model that is whenever we create an object of the
teacher in class.
Well we will need to specify as arguments the input size the number of action and the parameter.
And we'll end with the real values for them.
All right so now let's go inside the function.
OK.
So now basically this is going to be easy.
We are just about to create and initialize all the variables that we need.
And so let's start with the first one.
Let's start with gamma.
Actually the delay coefficient.
So since this is a Voivode want to be attached to her object we start with self.
So gamma is going to be a variable of our teacher and model itself that gamma equals the arguments that
will be input when creating an object of the detune class.
So Janna and there we go with the second argument.
The second argument is going to be the reward window.
So what is this window.
Well that's going to be the sliding window of the mean of the last 100 words which you will use just
to evaluate the evolution of the performance you know will have the meaning of the word into this war
Windu that will slide over time.
And what we want to observe is the meaning of the last 100 words increasing with time.
So let's initialize it with self that reward underscore window.
And so since this is going to be a sliding window of the evolving mean of the last 100 words.
Well we're going to initialize it as an empty list and then we will expand to mean that we work overtime.
All right then more exciting.
Let's create our neural network.
So we're going to call it self-taught Mario because basically that's the heart of the models.
I'm calling it model and this model is going to be nothing else than a subject in that class and to
create such an object.
We take our class network in parenthesis and here we just put the arguments of the class but we put
these arguments in the arguments of the init function and therefore we just need to copy them right
here and just paste them in the network class and then we go with this line of code.
We create one neural network for learning model perfect then let's create a memory.
So again we're going to create a new Vargo that we call self taught memory.
And again this is going to be an object of the replay memory class.
So let's just take the name or class let's copy yet let's face that here and in some parenthesis we
need to put the capacity because the capacity is an argument of the function and that's the only argument
we need to here.
So what capacity are we going to choose remember that corresponds to the number of transitions the number
of events last state you state last action and last word.
And so as mentioned in one of the Priester toils we are going to take one hundred thousand one hundred
thousand transitions into memory and then we will sample from this memory to get a small number of random
transitions and that on which the model will OK.
So now we have our memory perfect.
Now let's get our optimizer.
So again self we create a new variable this we call optimizer so optimizer is another variable of our
future dequeue an object self that optimizer.
And now if we go back up you can see that we imported tortured Upton which is a modular torch that contains
all the tools to perform to get the grid in the center.
So of course it contains some optimizers and we gave it the shortcut Upton and therefore here what we're
going to do is take the model up to him which is torch's that up to him and from this module we are
going to take one of the optimizers.
So as you can see they're all listed here.
Many of them are excellent for example armor's Propp is an excellent optimizer.
There is for example highly recommended for a record of neural networks or unsupervised deep learning.
But the other one that is excellent and that he will choose is the atom optimizer.
That's the one you'll see that with this one will get a good self-driving car.
But again you are totally welcome to try other ones you can try the arms prop but for metal we will
choose Adam.
So I'm pressing enter.
And in fact you'll notice there is the capitol here.
That's because we're creating an object of the Atom class.
This is a class but the object will be an atom optimizer itself.
But since this is a class we need to put some arguments the arguments of the Atom class and the arguments
are all the parameters that can customize your and optimizer.
So for example that's typically the learning rate the decay or some other parameters.
And besides taking all the parameters of Ormeau we will specify a learning rate.
So it's beginning of the parameters of our model.
We can get them with self doubt model.
So that's the model we created here self-taught model from our own class.
So self-taught model and then to access the parameters of the model we add another dot and then parameters
with some parenthesis very simply.
So that's just to connect the addon optimizer to our neural network the one that we created here again
then as we just mentioned we're going to add a learning rate and the argument for this is our.
And we will set it equal to a value such that the learning doesn't happen too fast if we get a learning
rate too large then the AI AI will learn properly.
We want to give our AI some time to explore learn from its mistakes.
You know when we punish it when it's making some mistakes like going onto some sense or getting too
close to a wall.
Well we want to give some time to learn.
We want a way to the neural network to date correctly.
And so a good value for the learning rate I ended up with after trying several of them is 0.2 or one.
All right and that's all we need to create an optimizer.
So basically you're creating an object of the Atom class.
Great.
And then the last three variables we need are the variables composing our transition events.
So that's the last date the last action and the last word.
And so that's basically what we'll create now and we'll just need to initialize them.
So let's start with the last date the last date we're going to call it self-taught.
Last underscore state and then how are you going to initialize it.
Well remember the last date is a vector of 5 dominations a vector that is encoded in one state of the
environment.
And as a reminder these five dimensions are the three signals of the three sensors left straight and
right and orientation and minus orientation.
So this is a vector and intuitive sense.
But for by torch it needs to be more than a vector.
It actually needs to be a torch tensor.
But not only it needs to be a torch sensor but also it needs to have one more dimension that I like
to call it fake dimension that corresponds to the batch.
And that's because the last eight will be the input of the neural network but when working with me when
that works in general whether it is with denser flow carries a torch while the input vectors cannot
be a simple vector by itself.
It has to be in a batch.
The network can only accept batch of input observations and therefore not only will create a tensor
for input state vectors but also we will create this fake dimension corresponding to the batch.
So let's do this and let's start by initializing a torch tensor so to do this there is nothing more
simple.
We take our torche library then dot and then we're going to use the tensor class because as you might
have guessed this will create an object of the tensor class that is a tensor object.
And in this tensor we need to put an argument which will specify the size of tensor.
You can picture it takes you like an array having one single type.
But basically what this will represent now is of course this input state which you can see has a vector
and so to specify the number of elements distance must have.
Well we need to use of course the input size because the input size is exactly the number of dimensions
of our input state vectors.
Now I should say tensors.
And so what we simply need to input in our tensor class to create tensor object.
Well that's imprecise.
And later on input size will be quantified.
All right that's good.
That's the first thing done.
We just initialized the tensor as it should be.
But then remember we need to do another thing we need to create that fake dimension because this is
what the network will expect for its inputs and to create this one for examination which by the way
has to be the first time engine you know the damage you put into the batch will be the first time I
mention this let's say very well.
Well to do this we simply need to add that then and squeeze and then in some parenthesis.
We need to put the index of this big dimension.
And as I just said this fake dimension has to be the first animation of the last date and since indexes
and bytes and started zero we need to input zero so that this new paradigm engine is becoming the first
line engine.
So we have a first time engine corresponding to the batch and then the diamond should respond to that
sensor which will contain the five elements of your input states the three signals orientation and minus
orientation.
And then we go we initialized our input states properly.
Perfect.
And then two variables to go and thats going to be much easier because the next variable is the last
action.
Thats a new Roybal we are creating for Object last action.
And remember in the first tutorial of the section I told you that the actions are going to be either
0 1 or 2 and then using the action rotation vector we will convert these indexes of these actions into
the angles of the rotation which I remind our 0 20 or minus 20.
We can actually refresh our memory with that.
Well it is exactly here.
Action to rotation if the action is zero.
Well this will correspond to the first index of zero if the action is 1.
This will correspond to the index one of these vectors of 20 degrees and if the action is to we will
get minus 20 degrees that's going to be the rotation angle of our car when we play the action.
All right.
And therefore since the action is going to be either 0 1 or 2 Well the action is there for a simple
number.
And so very simply we can initialize it to zero.
We don't need to create any tens or hear anything else.
We just need to initialize it with zero.
And finally.
Well that's the last word.
It's the self that last word.
There we go.
And again the word is a float number which I remind is between minus 1 and plus 1.
So that's number again.
And as for the action.
We will initialize it to zero and then we go.
Congratulations are in it function is ready.
So now we are ready to move on to the exciting stuff.
And actually the most important thing for AI that's deciding which action to play at each time and each
tanty And that's exactly what we're going to do in the next tutorial by creating the select action method.
So let's do this in the next to toil and until then I.